Look at the following pictures. Can you identify them ? Think and tell your
teacher the same.
An old King 	An old Queen A beautiful baby
A Fairy Spindle Young and beautiful
Princess
Staircase
Rusty Key Thorny Bushes
Magnificent Wedding	Handsome Prince
Picture Reading
49 	English-4

-- 1 of 10 --

A Lean Hen A Fat Cat
An Old Owl
A Young Yak
A White Rabbit
Adjectives of Quality in Animal World
Adjectives that show the quality, kind or condition of a person or thing are called
Adjectives of Quality. They are also called Descriptive Adjectives.
A Tall Giraffe
A Pretty Parrot An Ugly Eagle
Grammatical Awareness
Adjectives of Quality
50 	English-4

-- 2 of 10 --

A Dirty Dog 	A Neat Dove 	A Big Pig
A Small Lion A Clever Fox
Some More Examples :
Mumbai is a large city.
I ate some ripe mangoes and seedless grapes.
The child has a smiling face.
They lived in a big red house.
Mr. Ramesh is a kind man.
The camel is a very useful animal.
The dog is a faithful one.
These small apples have a sweet taste.
Mr. Suman bought a new car.
We have warm weather in Summer.
Note : 	Adjectives of quality always answer the question, “Of what kind.”
A Foolish Camel
51 	English-4

-- 3 of 10 --

Long, long ago, there lived a king and a queen who longed for a baby. One day,
when the queen was bathing in the lake, a frog jumped out of the water and said, “Before
the end of this year, your wish to have a baby will be granted.”
A few days later the prediction of the frog came true and the Queen gave birth to
a beautiful baby girl and she decided to have a grand christening ceremony. They have
not only invited their relatives and friends, but also invited the twelve good fairies to be
godmothers. However, there were thirteen fairies in the land, but the king had forgotten
the thirteenth as she lived alone faraway in a castle and she was not invited. That proved
a grave mistake for the King and Queen and they soon realized their mistake.
The christening was held grandly and when it was almost over, the good fairies went
up to the cradle and bestowed gifts on the baby. One gave her gift of virtue, another, beauty
and another, wealth and the baby Princess had all the gifts. When the eleventh fairy had
bestowed her gift, the thirteenth fairy came and said, “I am going to give her a gift which
will never allow her to forget me.” She shouted and wailed, “On her sixteenth birthday,
the Princess will prick herself with a spindle and will die.”
Reading
52 	English-4

-- 4 of 10 --

All the members were dumbstruck but the twelfth fairy came and as she had the
power to lift the wicked curse, she eased it saying, “Take comfort. The Princess won’t
die, but falls into deep sleep for hundred years when she pricks her finger on the spindle.”
The king ordered all the spindles to be banned and burnt as the hope that he would
save his daughter from the magic spell of the thirteenth fairy. He regretted not inviting
her to the christening.
The years flew and the princess grew up to be kind and beautiful and was loved by
all. On her sixteenth birthday her parents were away for part of the day. So the princess
was alone for most of the day.
She wandered all over the palace and had a look at all the places where she had never
been before. Finally, she came to a winding staircase which led to a tower. She climbed
up the staircase and reached a little door with a rusty key in the lock. When she turned
it, the door opened and she found an old woman busily spinning flax on a spindle.
53 	English-4

-- 5 of 10 --

The old woman greeted her and invited her. The princess asked her, “What are you
doing ?” The old woman replied, “I’m spinning yarn.” The princess then asked, “What
is that thing that is jumping up and down ?”. “That’s a spindle,” replied the old woman,
“Will you try it ?” The princess took the spindle and began to spin.
As soon as she touched the spindle, she fell asleep. The whole palace along with
her parents who have just arrived also fell asleep. There was not even the rustle of the
dry leaf as everybody and everything have slept peacefully.
A hedge of thorns grew up around the palace. Every year the hedge grew higher and
thicker and eventually the flag on the palace roof could no longer be seen.
The story of the sleeping beauty became a legend in that land. From time to time
princes went to cut the thorns, but they failed in their attempts. So almost all of them
gave up the idea of searching for the Sleeping Beauty.
After a hundred years, a prince heard about the story of the Sleeping Beauty.
He knew about the attempts of the other princes who have failed and he thought, “I want
to go and find the lovely Sleeping Beauty for myself,” saying so he rode to the hedge of
thorns and a mysterious thing happened.
54 	English-4

-- 6 of 10 --

When he was about to cut the wild hedge of thorns a path opened up, and the
prince rode straight into the palace. The wild thorns closed up to form a hedge once
more.
The prince saw the horses, dogs, birds asleep. He looked around and saw the
king and queen also fast asleep.
Finally, he came to the tower and opened the door to the little room where the
princess lay sleeping. She looked so beautiful that he bent down to kiss her on the
lips. As his lips touched hers, the Sleeping Beauty awoke and fell in love with the
prince at first sight.
The rest of the palace awoke after their long sleep. It seemed as though time
had stood still and those long, long years had never passed.
The spell was lifted at last and the darkest days were finished. Soon everyone
enjoyed the magnificent Wedding Reception of Sleeping Beauty. The prince and
the Sleeping Beauty lived happily thereafter. No one ever saw or heard about that
troublesome thirteenth fairy.
S
55 	English-4

-- 7 of 10 --

A. 	This section is aimed at improving the student’s oral communication. Encourage the
student to take up the role play.
Witch 	: 	The princess will never forget me in her life.
Queen : 	Please forgive us. Do not bestow a curse on our princess.
King 	: 	We beg for your pardon. Don’t do it to our daughter.
Witch 	: 	The princess in her sixteenth year will prick herself with a spindle and die.
B. 	This section is aimed at improving the student’s pronunciation. STrESS the capital
letters in the words.
Predict 	: 	to tell in advance, foretell
Christened 	: 	a ceremony conducted for naming a child
Bestow 	: 	present
Castle 	: 	palace
Virtue 	: 	goodness
Curse 	: 	evil, misfortune
Prick 	: 	drive a sharp point into
Hedge 	: 	a fence formed by bushes
PREdict 	CEremony 	aTTEMPT
MYSTErious 	CAstle 	beSToW
Wander 	VIRtue 	CHRIStened
C. 	Learn the meanings of the words.
Stress The Right Way
Spell And Tell
Listening & Speaking
Glossary
56 	English-4

-- 8 of 10 --

III. Fill & Drill : Fill in the blanks with Adjectives of Quality. See ‘take My Help’.
1. 	He is an 	man.
2. 	The child fell down from a 	tree.
3. 	Swimming is a 	exercise.
4. 	The elephant is a 	animal.
5. 	Ram is an 	boy.
II. 	Watch & Match : Match the words that go together. The first one is done for you.
1. 	big 	( 	e 	) 	a. elephant
2. 	wise 	( 	) 	b. owl
3. 	strong 	( 	) 	c. cow
4. 	ugly 	( 	) 	d. Solomon
5. 	healthy 	( 	) 	e. building
Vocabulary
Grammar
I. 	Answer the following questions.
1. What did the frog tell the queen ?
2. What is the mistake committed by the king and queen ?
3. What is the curse given by the thirteenth fairy ?
4. What happened on the princess’ sixteenth birthday ?
5. At last, who had woken up the princess ?
Comprehension
Take My Help :
1. big
2. good
3. tall
4. honest
5. intelligent
57 	English-4

-- 9 of 10 --

V. 	Become An Artist ! Show the following Descriptive Adjectives by drawing pictures.
1. 	A fat cat
2. 	A smiling face
3. 	A broken egg
4. 	A small bicycle
Fun Time
IV. 	Pick & tick : 	Pick out the Adjectives of Quality and tick them. The first one is
done for you.
1. 	The thirteenth fairy was a wicked woman.
2. 	Chocolates are very sweet.
3. 	The greedy man killed the golden hen for money.
4. 	Chennai is a large city.
5. 	The prince was very handsome.

58 	English-4

-- 10 of 10 --

